#229 AdnTurbo script page 1.7 (#238)
Inbibo/adonisfx_docs: docs/maya/scripts/turbo.md

# Turbo

The Turbo script is a Python script that automates the setup of an AdonisFX rig on a clean asset. It configures the following simulation layers in sequence:

- **Muscle layer**  
- **Glue layer**  
- **Fascia layer**  
- **Fat layer**  
- **Skin layer** 

Please, check this [section](#limitations) to know more about the current limitations.

## Requirements

Each layer builds upon the previous one, this means that a specific layer cannot be created unless all the previous layer inputs have been provided.

To configure at least the muscle layer, the following inputs are required:

- **Mummy geometry**: the skeletal mesh that drives the muscle simulation.  
- **Muscle geometries**: one or more meshes representing muscles.

When these two inputs are provided, the muscle layer will be completely configured including AdonisFX locators and sensors.

> Additional layers require cumulative inputs as follows:

Reviewer: Not sure if this is right, can you double check?

```suggestion
Additional layers require accumulative inputs as follows:
```

| Target Layer | Required Inputs |
| :----------- | :-------------- |
| Glue         | `mummy`, `muscles`, `glue = True` |
| Fascia       | previous inputs + `fascia = "<fascia_geometry_name>"` |
| Fat          | previous inputs + `fat = "<fat_geometry_name>"` |

> | Skin         | previous inputs + `skin = "<skin_geometry_name>"` |

Reviewer: I understand what it means because I know how the script works and I know the main apply method. However, for a new user, this can be so confusing. I think we either move it after the example code (below the python code where the apply_turbo method is explained) or remove it.

Author: Yes, it might be confusing. I think we can just remove it because the page refers several times to the fact that the inputs are "accumulative".

Author: Yes, it might be confusing.

I've reformated the "Requirements" and moved it after "Arguments". I think it makes more sense to explain the requirements after the explanation of the arguments. Let me know if it works for you.

## Arguments

In this section we provide a brief overview of the arguments of the `apply_turbo` function.

<pre><code style="white-space: pre; margin: 20px 0; padding: 10px; box-sizing: border-box;">from adn.scripts.maya.turbo import apply_turbo

def apply_turbo(
    mummy,                    # str: name or path of the skeletal mesh
    muscles,                  # str or list: muscle geometry names
    fascia=None,              # str: fascia geometry name
    fat=None,                 # str: fat geometry name
    skin=None,                # str: skin geometry name
    glue=False,               # bool: enable glue layer
    glue_group=None,          # str: group name for glue output geometry
    create_glue_group=True,   # bool: auto-create glue_group if it does not exist
    space_scale=1.0,          # float: simulation scale factor
    force=False,              # bool: remove existing AdonisFX nodes
    report_data=None          # dict: collects errors and warnings
)
</code></pre>

> | Argument | Type | Default | Description |

Author: Done.

| :------- | :--- | :------ | :---------- |

> | **mummy**             | string         | *required* | Name or full path of the skeletal mesh or group containing it. |

Author: Done.

> | **muscles**           | string or list | *required* | Single mesh, group, or list of groups and/or meshes representing muscles. |

Author: Done.

> | **fascia**            | string         | None       | Fascia mesh or group name. Requires `glue = True`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **fascia**            | string         | None       | Geometry to apply the fascia deformer to. It can be: 1) name of the fascia geometry; 2) group containing the fascia geometry. Requires `glue=True`. |
```

Author: Done.

> | **fat**               | string         | None       | Fat mesh or group name. Requires fascia to be provided first. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **fat**               | string         | None       | Geometry to apply the fat deformer to. It can be: 1) name of the fat geometry; 2) group containing the fat geometry. Requires fascia to be provided first. |
```

Author: Done.

> | **skin**              | string         | None       | Skin mesh or group name. Requires fat to be provided first. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **skin**              | string         | None       | Geometry to apply the skin deformer to. It can be: 1) name of the skin geometry; 2) group containing the skin geometry. Requires fat to be provided first. |
```

| **glue**              | bool           | False      | If True, creates an AdnGlue node using all muscles as inputs. |
| **glue_group**        | string         | None       | Name of the group where the glue geometry will be placed. |

> | **create_glue_group** | bool           | False      | If True and `glue_group` is set, the group is created if it does not exist. |

Author: Fixed.

> | **create_glue_group** | bool           | True       | If True and `glue_group` is set, the group is created if it does not exist. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **create_glue_group** | bool           | True       | If True and `glue_group` is provided, the group is created if it does not exist. |
```

Author: Done.

> | **space_scale**       | float          | 1.0        | Factor to scale simulation space. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **space_scale**       | float          | 1.0        | Factor to scale simulation space. It will be set to the space scale of all the solvers created. |
```

Author: Done.

> | **force**             | bool           | False      | If True, removes existing AdonisFX nodes before applying new ones (does not remove rivets or old glue meshes created by the turbo script). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **force**             | bool           | False      | If True, deletes all existing AdonisFX nodes before executing to create the new nodes from a clean scene. Note that auxiliary nodes (e.g. rivets) or meshes created by an existing AdnGlue node will not be deleted. |
```

Author: Done.

<pre><code style="white-space: pre; margin: 20px 0; padding: 10px; box-sizing: border-box;">from adn.scripts.maya.turbo import apply_turbo

mummy             = "mummy_GEO"
muscles           = ["L_deltoid_GEO", "L_bicepsBrachii_GEO", "L_brachialis_GEO", "L_triceps_GEO", ...]
glue              = True
glue_group        = "glue_GRP"
create_glue_group = True
fascia            = "fascia_GEO"
fat               = "fat_GEO"
skin              = "simSkin_GEO"
report_data       = {"errors": [], "warnings": []}

apply_turbo(
    mummy,
    muscles,
    fascia=fascia,
    fat=fat,
    skin=skin,
    glue=glue,
    glue_group=glue_group,
    create_glue_group=create_glue_group,
    report_data=report_data
)
</code></pre>

<figure style="width:90%; margin-left:5%" markdown>
  ![Turbo Execution Completed](../images/turbo_script_02.png)
  <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: All simulation layers configured after the execution: muscles, glue, fascia, fat and skin.</figcaption>

> </figure>

Author: This screenshots shows all the layers after the execution, however it might look a bit ugly because of all the geometries overlapping. Maybe we can show the muscle layer with the locators or even the last layer only (skin). Let me know what you think.

On the other hand I've used the arm scene to take the screenshots, let me know if I should use mike scene.

Reviewer: Have you tried to use the x-ray view? I agree with you, the overlapping geometries are problematic

Author: Added a screenshot with x-ray. I think it looks much better now.

5. If something goes wrong during the execution, error and warning messages will be added to the `report_data` dictionary. Execute the following code to log all the information in the terminal for troubleshooting.

<pre><code style="white-space: pre; margin: 20px 0; padding: 10px; box-sizing: border-box;">import logging
for err in report_data["errors"]:
    logging.error(err)
for warn in report_data["warnings"]:
    logging.warning(warn)
</code></pre>

> [!NOTE]

> > - If multiple geometries share the same name in different groups (e.g. group1|geo vs. group2|geo), provide the full DAG path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - If multiple geometries share the same name in different groups (e.g. group1|geo and group2|geo), providing the full DAG path will be required.
```

Author: Done.

> - If there are AdonisFX nodes in the scene and the `force` argument is set to `False` the Turbo script will generate an error in `report_data` indicating to clear the scene or to run the script again with `force = True` to automatically delete all the AdonisFX nodes.
> - The turbo process can also be executed with the **AdnTurbo tool**. For more details, please refer to the [Turbo Tool page](../tools/turbo_tool).

## Result

As a result of executing the script by providing the geometries for all the layers, the following nodes will be created:

- An AdnMuscle for each muscle geometry with the mummy geometry as target.

> - An AdonisFX locator and sensor for each AdnMuscle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An AdonisFX locator and sensor for each AdnMuscle to drive the muscle activation.
```

Author: Done.

- An AdnGlue node (including its glue output geometry) with all the muscles as inputs.
- An AdnSkin node for the fascia geometry with the mummy and glue geometries as targets.
- An AdnRelax node applied on top of the fascia AdnSkin.
- An AdnFat node for the fat geometry with the fascia geometry as base mesh.
- An AdnRelax node applied on top of the AdnFat.
- An AdnSkin node for the skin geometry.

## Limitations

- The glue layer cannot be bypassed. This means that if the `fascia` argument is provided, the `glue` flag must be `True` for the script to complete successfully.

> - If the `force` flag is set to `True` the script will automatically remove all the AdonisFX nodes from the scene (if any). However, other nodes created in previous executions of the script will not be removed (i.e. glue geometry, rivet nodes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the `force` flag is set to `True` the script will automatically remove all the AdonisFX nodes from the scene (if any). However, other auxiliary nodes created in previous executions of the script will not be removed (i.e. glue output geometry, rivet nodes).
```

> - Self-collisions are not configured by the turbo script.

Author: I'm not sure if we want to expose this "limitation".

Reviewer: It's good to know, but maybe I would not expose it as limitation. I am sure that there are many other features in other solvers that are not configured, for example, multiple activation, or AdnActivation nodes, attach to transform, slide on segment, etc

Author: Makes sense, I will remove it.
